layout: mentor
first-name: "Prashant"
last-name: "Pathak"
picture: prashantpathak.jpg
job: "CEO, Ekagrata Inc."
linkedin: https://ca.linkedin.com/in/pathakps 
categories: [Product Development, Strategy, IT, Venture Capital, Oil and Mineral, International Operations]
accomplishments: ["Board Member of the Business Development Bank of Canada", "Former leader of the North American Telecom Practice at McKinsey ","Expert in Product Development"]
---
Prashant Pathak is CEO of Ekagrata Inc. a business building oriented principal investment company. As an active owner he spends considerable time in Board and oversight roles at private and public companies in the Ekagrata portfolio . He also serves on Board of several companies and public and community institutions. He is an appointee of Government of Canada on the Board of BDC (Business Development Bank of Canada, an $18 Billion institution). He is currently Chairman of the Venture Capital and Investments Committee, for BDC Venture Capital, which is Canada’s largest VC program and previously served on the Credit & Risk and the Pensions Committees.

Previously, Mr. Pathak has been a Partner of McKinsey & Company Inc. At McKinsey he was a leader of the North American Telecom Practice, the Financial Services Practices and a leader in the Strategy & Corporate Finance Practice. He has advised several global corporations on a range of general management, strategy, M&A and operations issues across North America, Asia, Europe and South America. At McKinsey he led several initiatives for the Firm focused on industry innovation, like Decapitalization -"Creating capital efficient business models, "Unlocking the Value of a Board" – Governance as a competitive advantage, IP-Transformation - "Creating the Telco of the Future", and Lean Six sigma - "Creating the Lean Telco". He has also been the Managing Partner of ReichmannHauer Capital Partners a successful Canadian private equity and investment firm. 

Prior to McKinsey, Mr. Pathak spent several years in the industry in management and field operations roles at Schlumberger and Halliburton. At Schlumberger Geco-Prakla, he started in the field and rapidly progressed to eventually supervise the seismic navigation operations for Asia Pacific. Before Schlumberger he worked with Halliburton ’s JV in India (HLSI) in upstream exploration business and also led the special projects team. Mr. Pathak has extensive international experience and built strong trusted relationships with several corporations, conglomerates and family holding companies from his work in Europe, Middle East Asia, and South East Asia. In addition to operations, he has experience in leading product and technology platform development.

Recently during the Financial Crisis, as a member of the Credit Risk and Investment Committee of the BDC Mr. Pathak contributed to the Canadian government’s Economic Action Plan through the launch of the CSCF (Canadian Secured Credit Facility) and BCAP (Business Credit Availability Program) ~$17 Billion programs that were meant to provide increased credit support in Canada. Mr. Pathak migrated to Canada in 1998. He now lives in Toronto. Prashant has a MBA from INSEAD with Distinction and a B.Tech degree in Electrical Engineering from The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), where he was adjudged the Best All-round Graduating Student of his class. He also has a Diploma in Fuzzy Logic from IIT.
